HTP clients are a key player in the client server architecture as being the client itself.
Let's check out what those clients are
mainly.
There are two types of clients.
The first one is the one that we use practically every day and that is simply a web browser most popular
ones are Google Chrome Firefox Safari Microsoft ad Shudra web browsers are deep integrators of HTP and
even the simplest things happening on a browser from loading an image to displaying a text are all based
on a request and responses.
You type your all that you want to visit and then the browser makes NHT requests and get requests for
you to display your web page for you.
It was all the necessary resources along the requests incrementally and then you were being shown to
a page that you requested just like that in the end of this video.
I'll show you how you can check out the requests going around when you request a web page in a browser.
Next up is the CTP protocol implementor's which are either libraries or the ones that are built into
the languages that use to develop your H2B clients.
In our case we're going to take a look at why we use Java HTP clients all of us want in our list there's
Apache's HTP client library Apache library has been used for a very long time by Joe Otwell operas.
However in order to even make a simple get requests you have to be writing lots of boilerplate code.
Next up is the rest template from spring itself rust template is heavily used with spring projects from
smallest ones to large enterprise applications.
As with the spring simplicity principal risk temple is a delight to use.
All you have to do is just write a single line of code.
Yes just a single line of code will definitely check it out.
When we start developing our application and you'll see how easy it is and the last one in our list
is fine Klein from Netflix all access Frank line is the result of a struggle within cloud environments
where most of the components are loosely coupled and of course within a cloud environment we're talking
about services for inclined is designed to work with other Netflix RSS projects and the main project
that is combined with is Eureka to Blumen to friend client.
All you have to do is create an interface for the rest endpoint that you need to request.
That's the first step.
The second step is to otherwhile to interface as simply call the exchange method when clients are out
of the scope for this course.
However I'm planning to release micro services training with spring.
So of course you'll definitely see a lot of Fame clients.
So make sure to check out that course when it's out.
Now let's switch back to Firefox and investigate what happens during a request and what we see as a
response.
All right.
I have firefox opened up so I'm going to go to spring that I know you are l to the address bar and see
what's going on in the browser to actually see what's happening behind the scenes.
I have to open up the developer tools and checkout network activity in MECO us to bring up the developer
tools.
You either go to options and select developer tools or you can use the shortcut for that and the shortcut
is all command and I.
Right.
We have our Inspektor tools our developer tools opened up so let's go to spring that I go and see what's
going on and make sure that you have the network tap selected.
So I'm going to go to Spring dot I know.
And here we go.
We have springs official website over and up and as you can see we have lots of requests going on.
Let's check out what those are.
Before we dark and says it was a hot topic we how response quotes.
Here we have two hundreds which is OK as you can see with the tooltip and the request method that is
used to bring up the page is get as you can see and is the root directory of the Web site.
Let's check out that request and see what's going on in our requests.
We have lots of data going on around we have requests.
You're all asked Springle I know.
And as the method we get and as you can see we have a removed address which is the IP address of the
Web site and the status quo the response code for this Web site is 200 which is OK and the A C to be
worse than that is used to make these requests.
Is 1.1.
And we have response headers added by the spring that Web site and are returned to us.
And right below that we have requests Helders added by Mozilla Firefox and let's take our other tabs
and see what we have in the cookies.
We have the cookies received from the Springboro Web site and indep Param that we don't have any parameters
in the response.
And this is the tricky part.
We have the complete HDMI website as you can see it starting with the DML task.
It has had an all the data that it requires to display his web page to render it in the browser.
Isn't that cool.
All right.
And in the next step we have timings these timings are indicators of the request timeouts and all the
things going around with them the request from its starting point to its ending point.
Let's take out another one and see what's going on with it.
And as you can see we have javascript I requested with the web page and in the request we have again
I get requests and 200.
OK.
And response.
We have a minute why javascript file.
Lots of code and right below that we have an image requested by a web page.
And again it's 200.
OK as you can see with the status code here and here in response we have the image itself.
Set in the spring logo and we have lots of other images brought by the browser used by the spring that
Iowa website.
All right.
Now we were aware of the clients that we use to make requests to start developing our own race API.
I'll see you on the next video.